THEY WERE WEARING OUR CLOTHES.
SO IT'S NOT JUST WORK TO THEM
BUT TO US.
IT'S HOW WE MAKE OUR MONEY.
>> Sreenivasan: AND, HOW NORMAN
ROCKWELL MIRRORED AMERICA'S
AMBITIONS AND COMMON VALUES IN
HIS ART.
>> AND A BARBER IN MONTANA
SUDDENLY HAD NORMAL KNOCKWELL IN
COMMON.
>> Sreenivasan: THOSE ARE JUST
SOME OF THE STORIES WE'RE
COVERING ON TONIGHT'S "PBS
NEWSHOUR."
>> Sreenivasan: AMERICANS AT
HOME AND ABROAD CELEBRATED THE
THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY TODAY.
THE ANNUAL MACY'S THANKSGIVING
DAY PARADE PASSED THROUGH THE
STREETS OF MANHATTAN.
IT DEFIED STRONG WINDS THAT
THREATENED TO GROUND ITS 16
GIANT BALLOONS.
ELSEWHERE, SHOPPERS GOT AN EARLY
START HUNTING DOWN BARGAINS
TYPICALLY RESERVED FOR BLACK
FRIDAY.
MORE THAN A DOZEN MAJOR
RETAILERS KEPT THEIR DOORS OPEN
FOR THE HOLIDAY.
MEANWHILE, U.S. FORCES IN
AFGHANISTAN ENJOYED A
THANKSGIVING FEAST WITH TURKEY
AND ALL THE TRIMMINGS.
COMBAT TROOPS ARE PREPARING TO
LEAVE THE COUNTRY BY THE END OF
NEXT YEAR.
IRAN EXTENDED AN INVITATION TO
THE U.N. NUCLEAR AGENCY TODAY TO
VISIT A FACILITY THAT HOUSES AN
UNFINISHED NUCLEAR REACTOR.
THE U.N. TEAM WILL VISIT THE
HEAVY WATER PLANT IN THE CENTRAL
CITY OF ARAK ON DECEMBER 8.
THIS INVITATION IS NOT PART OF
THE NUCLEAR DEAL IRAN MADE LAST
WEEK TO FREEZE ITS NUCLEAR
PROGRAM FOR SIX MONTHS IN RETURN
FOR A LIMITED REPRIEVE IN
ECONOMIC SANCTIONS.
CHINESE WARPLANES ARE NOW
PATROLLING THE COUNTRY'S NEW AIR
DEFENSE ZONE IN THE EAST CHINA
SEA.
CHINA'S STATE NEWS AGENCY
ANNOUNCED THE MOVE, HOURS AFTER
SOUTH KOREA AND JAPAN FLEW
PLANES THROUGH THE DISPUTED
AIRSPACE.
A SPOKESMAN FOR CHINA'S DEFENSE
MINISTRY IN BEIJING DEFENDED THE
COUNTRY'S NEW FLIGHT
RESTRICTIONS.
>> ( translated ): ACCORDING TO
INTERNATIONAL LAW AND PRACTICES,
A COUNTRY'S AIRCRAFT ARE ALLOWED
TO ENTER THE AIR DEFENSE
IDENTIFICATION ZONE OF ANOTHER
COUNTRY.
BUT IN THE MEANTIME, THE COUNTRY
THAT SETS UP THE DEFENSE
IDENTIFICATION ZONE HAS THE
RIGHT TO IDENTIFY THE
>> Sreenivasan: TWO AMERICAN B-
52 BOMBERS PASSED THROUGH THE
ZONE TUESDAY, WITHONYSPONSE FRO.
THAILAND'S EMBATTLED PRIME
MINISTER APPEALED TODAY FOR AN
END TO FIVE DAYS OF ANTI-
GOVERNMENT PROTESTS ACROSS
BANGKOK.
YINGLUCK SHINAWATRA CALLED FOR
NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE
OPPOSITION.
BUT THE DEMONSTRATORS REJECTED
THE IDEA OF TALKS.
THEY SURROUNDED SEVERAL MINISTRY
BUILDINGS IN THE CAPITAL, WAVING
FLAGS AND BLOCKING TRAFFIC.
THEY ALSO CUT OFF ELECTRICITY TO
THE NATIONAL POLICE
HEADQUARTERS.
THERE WAS WORD IN BRAZIL TODAY
THAT THE STADIUM SLATED TO HOST
THE FIRST MATCH IN NEXT YEAR'S
WORLD CUP COULD DELAY ITS
OPENING UNTIL FEBRUARY.
A CRANE COLLAPSED THERE
YESTERDAY, KILLING TWO WORKERS
AND DAMAGING THE CONCOURSE AREA
OF THE STADIUM.
NICK RAVENSCROFT OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS" IS IN SAO
PAULO.>> CRACKED IN HALF, IT COD
SIDEWAYS AND STILL LIES WHERE IT
FELL ACROSS A STAND BEING BUILT
FOR THE WORLD CUP FINALS.
CONSTRUCTION IS HALTED UNTIL
NEXT WEEK, SAYS THE COMPANY, FOR
UP TO A MONTH SAY THE UNIONS.
NOBODY KNOWS BUT EVERYBODY IS
WORRIED BECAUSE THIS IS THE
VENUE FOR THE FIRST WORLD CUP
MATCH AND IT'S MEANT TO BE
FINISHED BY THE END OF NEXT
MONTH.
THIS BUILDER WAS ON SITE
YESTERDAY WHEN THE ACCIDENT
HAPPENED.
HE KNEW FROM THE DEAFENING CRASH
IT WAS THE CRANE.
WHERE THEY RUSHING, I ASKED HIM?
>> ( translated ): THE TIMING
WAS VERY TIGHT BUT WE'D NEVER
CROSSED THE SAFETY LIMIT.
>> Reporter: DO YOU FEEL SAFE?
>> ( translated ): YES.
BUT THANK GOD WE'VE FINISHED
WORKING ON THE BUILDING THAT WAS
CRUSHED.
>> Reporter: BUT A LOCAL M.P.
WHO LEADS THE CONSTRUCTION
WORKERS' UNION SAYS CONCERNS
WERE RAISED ABOUT THE SFABLT OF
THE CRANE JUST HOURS BEFORE THE
ACCIDENT.
THE WORKERS WERE TOLD TO KEEP
GOING.
THOUGH THE DEVELOPERS REJECT
THIS.
TODAY INVESTIGATORS ARE TRYING
TO FIGURE OUT EXACTLY WHAT
BROUGHT THIS HUGE CRANE CRASHING
TO THE GROUND.
BUT LOOMING ABOVE THE SCENE ARE
WIDER QUESTIONS: BRAZIL HAS
KNOWN IT'S HOSTING THE WORLD CUP
FOR YEARS.
WHY IS EVERYTHINGAND BEFORE THES
EVEN KICKED OFF HERE IN JUNE.
FOR THE TWO WORKERS WHO DIED
HERE YESTERDAY AND THEIR
FAMILIES THE ACCIDENT WAS A
PERSONAL TRAGEDY.
FOR BRAZIL'S WORLD CUP DREAMS,
IT'S A WARNING.
>> Sreenivasan: SOCCER'S
GOVERNING BODY FIFA HAS SAID IT
WANTS ALL 12 WORLD CUP STADIUMS
READY BY THE END OF DECEMBER.
BUT TODAY IT RELEASED A
STATEMENT SAYING WORKERS' SAFETY
IS THE TOP PRIORITY.
A COMET BARRELING TOWARD MARS
HAD A CLOSE ENCOUNTER WITH THE
SUN TODAY, PASSING JUST
730,000 MILES FROM ITS SURFACE.
AS COMET ISON APPROACHED, THE
SUN'S RADIATION AND
GRAVITATIONAL PULL MELTED THE
COMET'S ICE AND BROKE ITS BODY
APART.
SCIENTISTS WATCHED THE BREAK-UP
CLOSELY, TO TRY AND LEARN MORE
ABOUT THE ORIGINS OF THE SOLAR
SYSTEM.
STILL AHEAD ON THE "NEWSHOUR":
EGYPT'S CRACKDOWN ON DISSIDENT
VOICES; THE BIG QUESTIONS THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT HAS RAISED
ABOUT THE ROLE OF GOVERNMENT IN
OUR LIVES; INCREASED SUFFERING
IN SYRIA'S CIVIL WAR.
PLUS, CHEF, AUTHOR AND ACTIVIST
ALICE WATERS; PAUL SOLMAN ON THE
ECONOMICS OF THE FIRST
THANKSGIVING AND NORMAN
ROCKWELL'S IMAGE OF AMERICA.
THE PROHIBITION ON PROTESTS DID
LITTLE TO SILENCE EGYPTIANS
CALLING FOR THE RELEASE OF
DEMONSTRATORS HELD BY THE
MILITARY-APPOINTED GOVERNMENT.
THEY ENACTED A LAW THIS PAST
SUNDAY THAT FORBIDS PROTESTS AT
PLACES OF WORSHIP, AND
GATHERINGS OF MORE THAN TEN
PEOPLE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
IT WAS IMMEDIATELY CONTROVERSIAL
AND DEFIED IN A COUNTRY THAT HAS
SEEN MASS PROTEST PLAY A MAJOR
PART IN THE REMOVAL OF TWO
PRESIDENTS IN THREE YEARS.
24 ACTIVIST WERE ARRESTED
TUESDAY AFTER PROTESTING A NEW,
CONTROVERSIAL LAW LIMITING
DEMONSTRATIONS.
ENACTED SUNDAY-- IT FORBIDS
PROTESTS AT PLACES OF WORSHIP,
AND BANS GATHERINGS OF MORE THAN
TEN PEOPLE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
AUTHORITIES SAY THE MEASURE WAS
NEEDED TO FIGHT TERRORISM AND
FOSTER STABILITY IN THE COURY.NT
EGYPT IS IN A STATE OF UPHEAVEAL
ONCE AGAIN, IT HABEENS  NEARLY
THREE YEARS SINCE THE REVOLUTION
WHICH SWEPT PRESIDENT HOSNI
MUBARAK FROM POWER, AND NEARLY
FIVE MONTHS SINCE THE MILITARY'S
REMOVED THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD'S
MOHAMMED MORSI, THE FIRST
ELECTED PRESIDENT IN THE
COUNTRY'S HISTORY, BUT THIS MOST
CLAMPDOWN ON PROTESTS HAS
SPARKED OUTRAGE AMONG ISLAMIST
AND SECULAR EGYPTIANS ALIKE.
>> ( translated ): IS FREEDOM OF
EXPRESSION, THAT HAS BEEN
RESERVED BY INTERNATIONAL
DECREES AND HUMAN RIGHTS, A
CRIME?
>> ( translated ): WHAT DO YOU
MEAN THAT I HAVE TO GET
PERMISSION TO GO OUT AND
DEMONSTRATE AGAINST A LAW THAT I
AM OPPOSED TO?
THIS IS RIDICULOUS; IT'S A JOKE.
>> Sreenivasan: SECURITY FORCES
USED WATER CANONS AND TEAR GAS
TO BREAK UP TUESDAY'S  PROTESTS
BY SECULAR ACTIVISTS IN FRONT OF
PARLIAMENT.
14 WOMEN INVOLVED IN THE
DEMONSTRATIONS WERE BEATEN AND
DRAGGED OFF BY POLICE BEFORE
BEING RELEASED ON A DESERTED
DESERT HIGHWAY IN THE MIDDLE OF
THE NIGHT.
AND YESTERDAY, ARREST WARRANTS
STEMMING FROM THE PROTESTS WERE
ISSUED FOR TWO PROMINENT LIBERAL
ACTIVISTS: ALLA ABDEL FATTAH AND
AHMED MAHER.
THEIR SUPPORTERS DECRIED THE
ORDER.
>> Sreenivasan: MAHER SPOKE WITH
ABDEL FATTAH OR AHMED MAHER ARE
TERRORISTS, THEY ARE PEACEFUL
PROTESTERS, THEY ARE PEACEFUL
FIGHTERS FOR THE FREEDOM.
>> Sreenivasan: MAHER SPOKE WITH
THE "NEWSHOUR'S" MARGARET WARNER
IN SEPTEMBER AND WAS, AT THAT
TIME, UNDER EXTREME PRESSURE
FROM THE MILITARY, ITS
SUPPORTERS AND EVEN SOME OF HIS
LIBERAL ALLIES FOR HAVING
DENOUNCED MORSI'S REMOVAL AS
UNDEMOCRATIC.
>> ( transtedla ): THERE ARE
MANY PEOPLE LIKE ME.
WE WILL CONTINUE TO SAY THAT THE
MILITARY ESTABLISHMENT MUST STAY
AWAY FROM POLITICAL WORK.
THIS IS BETTER FOR THE ARMY AND
BETTER FOR POLITICS.
THE MILITARY COUNCIL IS NOT
CONVINCED BY OUR DEMANDS, AND
DOES NOT UNDERSTAND THE WORD
DEMOCRACY TO BEGIN WITH.
>> Sreenivasan: THE GOVERNMENT
CRACKDOWN ON DISSENT EXTENDED
YESTERDAY, AS NEARLY TWO DOZEN
WOMEN AND GIRLS IN ALEXANDRIA
WERE HANDED LENGTHY PRISON
SENTENCES, SOME AS LONG AS 11
YEARS.
THEY WERE CHAED WRGITH INCITING
VIOLENCE AND DAMAGING PUBLIC
PROPERTY, BY HOLDING UP FOUR
THEY WERE CONVICTED FOR
PARTICIPATING IN AN OCTOBER 31ST
DEMONSTRATION AGAINST MORSI'S
OUSTER.
THE VERDICT SPAWNED MORE
PROTESTS TODAY AND CLASHES WITH
MILITARY FORCES OUTSIDE CAIRO
UNIVERSITY.
AT LEAST ONE STUDENT WAS KILLED
IN THE VIOLENCE.
EARLIER TODAY I SPOKE WITH NPR
INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT
LEILA FADEL IN CAIRO ABOUT HOW
EGYPTIANS ARE RESPONDING TO
THESE ARRESTS.
WHAT'S THE LATEST ON THE
CRACKDOWN THAT'S HAPPEN
HAPPENING OVER THE LAST FEW
SFWHEX.
>> WELL, THE THING THAT'S
DIFFERENT THIS WEEK AFTER MONTHS
OF CRACKDOWN ON SUPPORTERS OF
OUSTED PRESIDENT SMORS IS UNDER
THIS NEW PROTEST LAW THEY CRACK
DOWN ON SECULAR AND LEFTISTING A
VICTIMS.
THEY'VE ARRESTED DOZENS OF THEM
NOW RELEASE ON BAIL.
AND WE'VE ALSO SEEN ESCALATION
WITH THE CONDITIONS OF XIII
YOUNG ISLAMIST WOMEN IN
ALEXANDRIA OF 11 YEARS JUST FOR
PROTESTING IN SUPPORT OF THE
OUSTED PRESIDENT.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW'S THAT
PLAYING OUT?
OBVIOUSLY THE NEWS OF THOSE 14
ARRESTS IS NOW OUT THERE.
IS THERE THERE A PUBLIC OUTCRY
ABOUT HOW THOSE PROTESTERS WERE
TREATED?
>> I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S A PUBLIC
OUTCRY BUT WE'RE SEEING HUMAN
RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS SAYING THIS
IS UNACCEPTABLE, SAYING THIS IS
WORSE TREATMENT THAN THEY SAW
UNDER OUSTEDK.
YOU'RE SEEING SOME LEADING
SECULAR POLITICIANS CALLING THE
AUTHORITIES SAYING THIS MIGHT BE
A LITTLE TOO MUCH AND THE
FAMILIES THEMSELVES SAYING THEY
WILL APPEAL AND THIS IS EVIDENT
THAT THIS IS CLEARLY NOT A
DEMOCRATIC COUNTRY, THIS IS
CLEARLY MILITARY-LED
AUTHORITARIAN NATION AND THAT IT
WAS A COUP AGAINST THE FORMER
PRESIDENT.
>> Sreenivasan: SO YOU SEEM TO
BE SAYING THE MILITARY IS
TURNING AWAY ITS SPOTLIGHT FROM
THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD-- WHICH
THEY MIGHT HAVE SUCCESSFULLY
CRACKED DOWN ON-- AND IS
FOCUSING IT BACK ON THESE
SECULAR ACTIVISTS, THE ONES WHO
HELPED GET THEM INTO POWER IN
THE FIRST PLACE.
>> YES, THE SPOTLIGHT VERY MUCH
HAS BEEN ALMOST SOLELY ON THE
ISLAMISTS, THE SUPPORTERS OF THE
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD AND SOME
PEOPLE SAY THEY MADE A
LCGOING AFTER THESE YOUNG SECULR
LEFTIST ACTIVISTS.
BUT THESE ARE A COUPLE HUNDRED
PEOPLE AT THIS POINT.
WE'RE NOT SEEING A HUGE TIDE
TURN AGAINST THE ARMY AS OF NOW,
BUT FOR THE FIRST TIME A MUCH
WIDER OUTCRY FROM THE POLITICAL
ELITE WHEN THEY SEE
NON-ISLAMISTS GETTING THE
TREATMENT THAT WE'VE SEEN
ISLAMISTS GETTING IN THE LAST
FEW MONTHS.
>> Sreenivasan: WE'LL WE'RE
HEARING ABOUT THEM OVERSEAS, IS
THERE SOME CENSORSHIP GOING ON
IN THE MEDIA?
ARE THEY COVERED?
>> WE ARE SEEING SOME STORIES
BUT OVERALL THE PRIVATE
TELEVISION STATIONS HERE HAVE
BEEN CHEERLEADERS FOR THE ARMY
SO FAR.
WE HAVE BEEN SEEING REPORTS MORE
AND MORE-- ESPECIALLY WITH THE
RECENT CRACKDOWNS IN THE
ALEXANDRIA GIRLS-- COMING IT IN
THE LOCAL NEWSPAPERS BUT NOT A
WIDESPREAD CRITICISM OF THE ARMY
HERE OR IS INTERIM LEADERS.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU MENTIONED
THE HUMAN RIGHT GROUPS.
ARE THE PEOPLE ON THE STREET
LOOKING BACK AT THIS EXPERIMENT
AND SAYING PERHAPS WE WERE
BETTER OFF UNDER MUBARAK?
HAS IT GOTTEN THAT BAD?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT'S A
SENTIMENT PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
FEELING FOR A WHILE NOW.
NOT NECESSARILY BECAUSE THEY
LOVED MUBARAK BUT BECAUSE THEY
EXPECTED CERTAIN THINGS TO COME
OUT OF THE REVOLUTION IN 2007--
ECONOMIC PROSPERITY, SOCIAL
JUSTICE, ALL THESE THINGS THAT
THEY HAVEN'T SEEN.
SO MANY PEOPLE ARE SAYING AT
LEAST WE HAD STABILITY.
AND SO THAT'S WHY YOU'RE SEEING
MANY PEOPLE WHO SUPPORTED THE
OVERTHROW OF SMORS AND
ULTIMATELY A THE PATH TO
STABILITY RATHER THAN DEMOCRACY
NECESSARILY.
OVER THE LAST TWO YEARS IT'S
BEEN SUCH A DIFFICULT ROLLER
COASTER.
A DIFFICULT TRANSITION AS PEOPLE
TRY TO ELECT LEADERS, TRY TO
CREATE WHAT THEY THINK THE
FUTURE OF THEIR COUNTRY SHOULD
BE AND THAT HUGE AMOUNT OF INN
FIGHTING IS CREATING INSTABILITY
CREATING GOVERNMENTS THAT AREN'T
FUNCTIONING, THAT ARE IN
DEADLOCK.
SO A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE STARTING
TO -- I DON'T WANT TO SAY REGRET
WHAT HAPPENED BUT AT LEAST, YOU
KNOW, WONDERING WHETHER IT WAS
IN A MISTAKE BECAUSE LIFE ISN'T
BETTER IN THE GENERAL HOUSEHOLD
IN EGYPT.
THINGS AREN'T BETTER.
THERE ISN'T SOCIAL JUSTICE.
THEY'RE NOT FEEDING THE
FAMILIES.
THERE ISN'T BETTER EMPLOYMENT.
THOSE TYPES ARE OF THINGS ARE
NOT BETTER SO FAR.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE ANY
INTEREST IN A DIALOGUE?
HAS THE MILITARY MADE ANY
OVERTURES TO GROUPS?
WHETHER THE BROTHERHOOD OR THE
SECULARISTS?
OR DOES THE LEADERSHIP JUST FEEL
SO EMBOLDENED AND EMPOWERED THAT
THEY FEEL LIKE THEY DON'T HAVE
TO LISTEN TO ANYBODY, IT'S
EITHER OUR WAY OR THE HIGHWAY.
>> WE HAVEN'T SEEN REAL EFFORT
TO FROM THE ARMY TOWARDS THE
BROTHERHOOD FOR A DIALOGUE, FOR
RECONCILIATION.
IT'S ALMOST A DIRT YET WORD
THESE DAYS.
YOU KNOW, THEY'RE CALLING THEM
TERRORISTS.
WE'RE SAYING IT'S A BRANDT
GROUP.
PEOPLE ARE BEING ARRESTED JUST
FOR HAVING SYMBOLS OF THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD OR OF THEIR
PROTESTS.
JUST FOR MAYBE A RULER, BALLOON,
OR T-SHIRT.
BUT WHEN IT COMES TO THE SECULAR
ACTIVISTS, WE DID SEE VERY
DIFFERENT REACTION.
WE SAW MEMBERS OF THE 50-MEMBER
ASSEMBLY THAT'S TASKED WITH
AMENDING THE CONSTITUTION
SUSPENDING THEIR MEMBERSHIP
BRIEFLY SAYING THIS WAS
UNACCEPTABLE.
CALLING FOR THE RELEASE OF THOSE
ACTIVISTS.
SO IN THAT SENSE I THINK THERE
WAS A REAL AWAKENING AMONG
SECULAR ACTIVISTS AND AMONGST
SOME OF THE POLITICAL ELITE
SAYING, WELL, THIS USED TO SAY
THAT NO PROTESTS ARE ACCEPTABLE.
NO DESCENT, NOT JUST ISLAMIST
DESCENT, NO DISSENT IS
ACCEPTABLE NOW.
IF.
>> Sreenivasan: LEILA FADEL
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR JOINING
US.
>> THAT YOU CAN.
>> Sreenivasan: NOW A LOOK AT
SOME OF THE LARGER ISSUES RAISED
IN THE ONGOING DEBATE OVER THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
QUESTIONS OF HOW DEEPLY A
GOVERNMENT SHOULD INVOLVE ITSELF
IN THE PERSONAL WELFARE OF ITS
CITIZENS OF INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS
AND COLLECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES
EVEN WHETHER THE LAW'S TROUBLED
ROLL-OUT MIGHT BE SEEN AS A
CHALLENGE TO THE VIABILITY OF
THE LIBERAL PHILOSOPHY AT ITS
CORE.
THE LATEST MAJOR SETBACK CAME
YESTERDAY, WHEN THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION ANNOUNCED A ONE-
YEAR DELAY IN LAUNCHING THE
FEDERAL WEBSITE FOR SMALL
BUSINESSES TO ENROLL THEIR
EMPLOYEES WITH INSURERS.
JEFFREY BROWN GETS TWO VIEWS ON
THESE BIGGER ISSUES AT STAKE.
>> Brown: FOR THAT WE'RE JOINED
BY JACOB HACKER, THE INSTITUTE
FOR SOCIAL AND POLICY STUDIES AT
YALE UNIVERSITY, HE WORKED ON
THE BROAD BLUEPRINT OF THE
HEALTH CARE LAW AND HAS WRITTEN
A NUMBER OF BOOKS ABOUT SOCIAL
POLICY?
THE U.S.
AND AVIK ROY IS A SENIOR FELLOW
AT THE MANHATTAN INSTITUTE RAND
AUTHOR OF THE NEW BOOK "HOW
MEDICAID FAILS THE POOR."
HE SERVED AS MITT ROMNEY'S
HEALTH CARE ADVISOR DURING THE
2012 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN.
JACOB HACKER, LET ME START WITH
YOU.
WITH BEFORE WE GET TO IF
PROBLEMS OF THE ROLLOUT, HOW DO
YOU SEE THE AFFORDABLE HEALTH
CARE ACT FITTING INTO A LARGER
DEBATE IN THE U.S. OVER MANY
DECADES OVER THE ROLE OF
GOVERNMENT IN THE LIVES OF ITS
CITIZENS?
>> WELL, WE'VE BEEN DEBATING THE
PLACE OF HEALTH CARE IN THE
AMERICAN SOCIAL CONTRACT SINCE
THE EARLY PART OF THE 20th
CENTURY AND THAT DEBATE FOR 75
YEARS OR SO HAS RESULTED IN
LEGISLATIVE FAILURE.
AND THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WAS
A LANDMARK STEP FORWARD.
AMERICANS FOR A LONG TIME HAVE
BELIEVED THAT HEALTH CARE IS AN
ESSENTIAL PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY.
WHAT CHANGED IN THE LAST 20
YEARS OR SO IS THAT THE SECTOR
OF THE ECONOMY THAT WAS
PROVIDING HEALTH BENEFITS,
EMPLOYERS, INCREASINGLY STARTED
TO OFF LOAD THEM AND THE
MEDICAID PROGRAM START TO PICK
UP A LOT OF THAT FLAK.
SO FROM THE BILL CLINTON'S
HEALTH EFFORT IN 1993 THROUGH
THE SUCCESSFUL PASSAGE OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WE SAW MORE
AND MORE PRESSURE BEING PUT ON
THIS ISSUE BY THOSE WHOA ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE INCREASING
GAPS IN AMERICAN HEALTH
INSURANCE.
SO I THINK IT CLEARLY IS
DESIGNED TO BECOME AN INTEGRAL
PART OF THE AMERICAN SOCIAL
FABRIC LIKE MEDICARE OR SOCIAL
SECURITY IS.
IS.
>> Brown: AVIK ROY, IS IT AN
ESSENTIAL PART OF THE FABRIC --
HOW DO AMERICANS SEE IT?
IS IT A RESPONSIBILITY OF
GOVERNMENT?
IS IT A RIGHT OF CITIZENS?
>> WELL, I DON'T THINK THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC-- AND THE POLLS
ECHO THIS-- THE AMERICAN PUBLIC
DOESN'T NECESSARILY BELIEVE THE
GOVERNMENT SHOULD HAVE COMPLETE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE HEALTH
CARE SYSTEM OR EVEN A BROAD
CARE SYSTEM.
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE HEALTH
HOWEVER, I DO SHARE THE GOAL--
CARE SYSTEM.
AND I THINK A LOT OF
HOWEVER, I DO SHARE THE GOAL--
CONSERVATIVES DO SHARE THE
AND I THINK A LOT OF
GOAL-- THAT A BASIC SAFETY NET
CONSERVATIVES DO SHARE THE
THAT DOES PROVIDE BASIC HEALTH
GOAL-- THAT A BASIC SAFETY NET
CARE FOR EVERYONE IS AN
THAT DOES PROVIDE BASIC HEALTH
ATTRACTIVE AND WORTHY GOAL.
CARE FOR EVERYONE IS AN
THE PROBLEM WITH OUR SYSTEM
ATTRACTIVE AND WORTHY GOAL.
TODAY IS THE ENORMOUS WASTE AND
THE PROBLEM WITH OUR SYSTEM
THE UNAFFORDABILITY OF THE
TODAY IS THE ENORMOUS WASTE AND
SYSTEM TODAY AND THE FEDERAL
THE UNAFFORDABILITY OF THE
SPENDING WHICH IS INCREASINGLY A
SYSTEM TODAY AND THE FEDERAL
BURDEN ON MIDDLE-CLASS
SPENDING WHICH IS INCREASINGLY A
TAXPAYERS.
BURDEN ON MIDDLE-CLASS
AND THE THING WITH THE
TAXPAYERS.
AFFORDABLE CARE ACTING IS WHILE
AND THE THING WITH THE
IT DOES EXPAND COVERAGE IT MAKES
AFFORDABLE CARE ACTING IS WHILE
HEALTH CARE LESS AFFORDABLE FOR
IT DOES EXPAND COVERAGE IT MAKES
A LOT OF PEOPLE.
HEALTH CARE LESS AFFORDABLE FOR
>> Brown: SO IS IT A QUESTION OF
A LOT OF PEOPLE.
WHERE TO DRAW THE LINE WITH HOW
>> Brown: SO IS IT A QUESTION OF
MUCH GOVERNMENT ACTION IN THIS?
WHERE TO DRAW THE LINE WITH HOW
>> YEAH, I MEAN, IF WE --
MUCH GOVERNMENT ACTION IN THIS?
UNFORTUNATELY BECAUSE OF THE WAY
>> YEAH, I MEAN, IF WE --
OUR SYSTEM EVOLVED, IT EVOLVEED
UNFORTUNATELY BECAUSE OF THE WAY
IN A VERY IDIOSYNCRATIC WAY.
OUR SYSTEM EVOLVED, IT EVOLVEED
WE HAD MEDICARE FOR THE ELDERLY
IN A VERY IDIOSYNCRATIC WAY.
AND MEDICAID FOR THE VERY POOR
WE HAD MEDICARE FOR THE ELDERLY
AND FILLED IN THE BLANKS WITH A
AND MEDICAID FOR THE VERY POOR
LOT OF DIFFERENT PATCHES.
AND FILLED IN THE BLANKS WITH A
AS A RESULT, THE SYSTEM WE HAVE
LOT OF DIFFERENT PATCHES.
TODAY IS VERY INEFFICIENT.
AS A RESULT, THE SYSTEM WE HAVE
IF WE HAD STARTED WITH A SYSTEM
TODAY IS VERY INEFFICIENT.
THAT REALLY FOCUSED ON PROVIDING
IF WE HAD STARTED WITH A SYSTEM
ADEQUATE AND BASIC HEALTH CARE
THAT REALLY FOCUSED ON PROVIDING
TO THE POOR WE'D HAVE A MUCH
ADEQUATE AND BASIC HEALTH CARE
MORE EFFICIENT AND COST
TO THE POOR WE'D HAVE A MUCH
EFFECTIVE SYSTEM TODAY.
MORE EFFICIENT AND COST
UNFORTUNATELY WE DON'T AND
EFFECTIVE SYSTEM TODAY.
THAT'S WHY WE'RE SNUCK WHAT PAUL
UNFORTUNATELY WE DON'T AND
SAR WOULD CALL A POLICY TRAP
THAT'S WHY WE'RE SNUCK WHAT PAUL
WHERE WE ALLOCATING HEALTH CARE
SAR WOULD CALL A POLICY TRAP
RESOURCES FROM THE ELDERLY, FROM
WHERE WE ALLOCATING HEALTH CARE
OTHER PEOPLE WHO BENEFIT FROM
RESOURCES FROM THE ELDERLY, FROM
THE STATUS QUO IS VERY
OTHER PEOPLE WHO BENEFIT FROM
DIFFICULT.
THE STATUS QUO IS VERY
>> Brown: JACOB HACKER, CAN YOU
DIFFICULT.
AGREE WITH PART OF THAT?
>> Brown: JACOB HACKER, CAN YOU
THAT WE'RE SORT OF STUCK IN A
AGREE WITH PART OF THAT?
KIND OF TRIP THAT -- OF
THAT WE'RE SORT OF STUCK IN A
EFFECTIVENESS, OF EFFICIENCY?
KIND OF TRIP THAT -- OF
>> ABSOLUTELY.
EFFECTIVENESS, OF EFFICIENCY?
I ACTUALLY THINK THAT PAUL
>> ABSOLUTELY.
STAR'S FORMULATION OF THIS IN
I ACTUALLY THINK THAT PAUL
HIS WORK AS A BASICALLY A
STAR'S FORMULATION OF THIS IN
PATH-DEPENDENT STORY WHERE WE
HIS WORK AS A BASICALLY A
NEVER WOULD HAVE CHOSEN THE
PATH-DEPENDENT STORY WHERE WE
SYSTEM WE HAVE TODAY BUT IT CAME
NEVER WOULD HAVE CHOSEN THE
OUT ABOUT THROUGH A SERIES OF
SYSTEM WE HAVE TODAY BUT IT CAME
MISSTEPS AND POLICY DEFEATS IS
OUT ABOUT THROUGH A SERIES OF
VERY MUCH TRUE.
MISSTEPS AND POLICY DEFEATS IS
AND IT'S ABSOLUTELY TRUE, TOO,
VERY MUCH TRUE.
THAT THE SYSTEM IS QUITE
AND IT'S ABSOLUTELY TRUE, TOO,
INEFFICIENT.
THAT THE SYSTEM IS QUITE
BUT THE IMPORTANT THING TO KEEP
INEFFICIENT.
IN MIND IS THAT THE AFFORDABLE
BUT THE IMPORTANT THING TO KEEP
CARE ACT WAS DESIGNED REALLY TO
IN MIND IS THAT THE AFFORDABLE
WORK WITH THE EXISTING SYSTEM.
CARE ACT WAS DESIGNED REALLY TO
AND I THINK SOME OF ITS
WORK WITH THE EXISTING SYSTEM.
DIFFICULTIES REFLECT THE HUGE
AND I THINK SOME OF ITS
FRAGMENTATION OF THAT SYSTEM.
DIFFICULTIES REFLECT THE HUGE
THE FACT THAT IT'S RELYING SO
FRAGMENTATION OF THAT SYSTEM.
HEAVILY ON PRIVATE INSURANCE
THE FACT THAT IT'S RELYING SO
PLANS, THAT IT'S NOT TRYING TO
HEAVILY ON PRIVATE INSURANCE
DISPLACE THE EXISTING
PLANS, THAT IT'S NOT TRYING TO
EMPLOYMENT-BASED SYSTEM WHICH I
DISPLACE THE EXISTING
THINK AVIK AND I WOULD AGREE
EMPLOYMENT-BASED SYSTEM WHICH I
WOULDN'T IN AN IDEAL WORLD BE
THINK AVIK AND I WOULD AGREE
THE BEST WAY TO PROVIDE
WOULDN'T IN AN IDEAL WORLD BE
COVERAGE.
THE BEST WAY TO PROVIDE
AFTER ALL, IF YOU LOSE YOUR JOB
COVERAGE.
YOU LOSE YOUR HEALTH INSURANCE
AFTER ALL, IF YOU LOSE YOUR JOB
AND TYING HEALTH CARE SO CLOSELY
YOU LOSE YOUR HEALTH INSURANCE
TO EMPLOYMENT REDUCES JOB
AND TYING HEALTH CARE SO CLOSELY
MOBILITY, IS NOT A GREAT IDEA
TO EMPLOYMENT REDUCES JOB
FOR EMPLOYERS IN A GLOBAL
MOBILITY, IS NOT A GREAT IDEA
ECONOMY AND SO ON.
FOR EMPLOYERS IN A GLOBAL
SO WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH THE
ECONOMY AND SO ON.
REALITY OF THE SYSTEM AS IT IS
SO WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH THE
TODAY AND I THINK THE REAL
REALITY OF THE SYSTEM AS IT IS
QUESTION BEFORE US IS HOW DO WE
TODAY AND I THINK THE REAL
MOVE FORWARD GIVEN THE FACT THAT
QUESTION BEFORE US IS HOW DO WE
WE DO HAVE AN INEFFICIENT SYSTEM
MOVE FORWARD GIVEN THE FACT THAT
THAT SIMULTANEOUSLY FAILS TO
WE DO HAVE AN INEFFICIENT SYSTEM
COVER EVERYONE AND COSTS FOR
THAT SIMULTANEOUSLY FAILS TO
MARATHON THE SYSTEMS IN OTHER
COVER EVERYONE AND COSTS FOR
ADVANCED INDUSTRIAL DEMOCRACIES.
MARATHON THE SYSTEMS IN OTHER
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WAS AN
ADVANCED INDUSTRIAL DEMOCRACIES.
IMPORTANT STEP FORWARD.
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WAS AN
I STILL THINK IT'S GOING TO MAKE
IMPORTANT STEP FORWARD.
AN ENORMOUS POSITIVE DIFFERENCE
I STILL THINK IT'S GOING TO MAKE
BUT IN HAS BEEN A VERY DIFFICULT
AN ENORMOUS POSITIVE DIFFERENCE
PERIOD BECAUSE THE
BUT IN HAS BEEN A VERY DIFFICULT
IMPLEMENTATION OF IT HAS BEEN SO
PERIOD BECAUSE THE
POORLY HANDLED AND BECAUSE IT'S
IMPLEMENTATION OF IT HAS BEEN SO
SUCH A FRAGMENTED SYSTEM.
POORLY HANDLED AND BECAUSE IT'S
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT, AVIK ROY,
SUCH A FRAGMENTED SYSTEM.
THE QUESTION OF AMERICAN
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT, AVIK ROY,
INDIVIDUALISM VERSUS
THE QUESTION OF AMERICAN
COMMUNITARIANISM.
INDIVIDUALISM VERSUS
WE'VE HAD -- OUR REGULAR VIEWERS
COMMUNITARIANISM.
KNOW WE'VE BEEN HIGHLIGHTING,
WE'VE HAD -- OUR REGULAR VIEWERS
PROFILING A LOT OF INDIVIDUAL
KNOW WE'VE BEEN HIGHLIGHTING,
CASES, THEIR EXPERIENCE OF THE
PROFILING A LOT OF INDIVIDUAL
NEW HEALTH CARE ACT AND SOME
CASES, THEIR EXPERIENCE OF THE
PEOPLE SAY "I SEE I HAVE TO
NEW HEALTH CARE ACT AND SOME
SACRIFICE SO THAT OTHERS CAN GET
PEOPLE SAY "I SEE I HAVE TO
IT.
SACRIFICE SO THAT OTHERS CAN GET
THE" THEY'RE WILLING TO TAKE
IT.
THAT APPROACH.
THE" THEY'RE WILLING TO TAKE
OTHER PEOPLE SAY "WHY SHOULD I
THAT APPROACH.
PAY MORE SO OTHERS CAN BE
OTHER PEOPLE SAY "WHY SHOULD I
COVERED?
PAY MORE SO OTHERS CAN BE
"
COVERED?
>> WELL, I THINK WHAT THIS COMES
"
DOWN-TO-IS THE FACT THAT, AGAIN,
>> WELL, I THINK WHAT THIS COMES
IF SOMEBODY IS BORN WITH DOWN
DOWN-TO-IS THE FACT THAT, AGAIN,
SYNDROME I THINK MOST AMERICANS
IF SOMEBODY IS BORN WITH DOWN
WOULD SAY A CHILD BORN WITH DOWN
SYNDROME I THINK MOST AMERICANS
SYNDROME, LET'S TRY TO PROVIDE
WOULD SAY A CHILD BORN WITH DOWN
THAT CHILD WITH ADEQUATE HEALTH
SYNDROME, LET'S TRY TO PROVIDE
CARE.
THAT CHILD WITH ADEQUATE HEALTH
THE QUESTION BECOMES WHEN YOU
CARE.
CREATE A SYSTEM THAT
THE QUESTION BECOMES WHEN YOU
DISINCENTIVIZES PEOPLE FROM
CREATE A SYSTEM THAT
BEING ECONOMICALLY PRODUCTIVE.
DISINCENTIVIZES PEOPLE FROM
THAT INCENTIVIZES PEOPLE TO DROP
BEING ECONOMICALLY PRODUCTIVE.
OUT OF THE WORK FORCE.
THAT INCENTIVIZES PEOPLE TO DROP
THAT INCENTIVIZES THEM TO
OUT OF THE WORK FORCE.
REARRANGE THEIR INCOME TO GAIN
THAT INCENTIVIZES THEM TO
HIGHER AMOUNTS OF GOVERNMENT
REARRANGE THEIR INCOME TO GAIN
BENEFITS, THAT'S A SYSTEM WHERE
HIGHER AMOUNTS OF GOVERNMENT
THE AVERAGE TAXPAYER WORKS HARD
BENEFITS, THAT'S A SYSTEM WHERE
AND PLAYS BY THE RULES FEELS
THE AVERAGE TAXPAYER WORKS HARD
LIKE HE'S NOT BEING TREATED
AND PLAYS BY THE RULES FEELS
FAIRLY.
LIKE HE'S NOT BEING TREATED
AND THEN A LARGE PART OF THE
FAIRLY.
PROBLEM, AGAIN, IS THE EXISTING
AND THEN A LARGE PART OF THE
SYSTEM OF SUBSIDY WHICH IS
PROBLEM, AGAIN, IS THE EXISTING
OVERWHELMINGLY BENEFITS THE
SYSTEM OF SUBSIDY WHICH IS
ELDERLY WHO END UP RECEIVING A
OVERWHELMINGLY BENEFITS THE
LOT MORE IN BENEFITS THAN THEY
ELDERLY WHO END UP RECEIVING A
PUT INTO THE SYSTEM IN TERMS OF
LOT MORE IN BENEFITS THAN THEY
PAYROLL TAXES AND PREMIUMS.
PUT INTO THE SYSTEM IN TERMS OF
SO THE SYSTEM IN GENERAL IS
PAYROLL TAXES AND PREMIUMS.
LARGELY REDISTRIBUTED BUT IN THE
SO THE SYSTEM IN GENERAL IS
WRONG DIRECTION AND IN AN UNFAIR
LARGELY REDISTRIBUTED BUT IN THE
DIRECTION.
WRONG DIRECTION AND IN AN UNFAIR
UNFORTUNATELY, AGAIN, THE
DIRECTION.
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT MAKES THESE
UNFORTUNATELY, AGAIN, THE
PROBLEMS WORSE.
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT MAKES THESE
IT TAKES THE INDIVIDUAL
PROBLEMS WORSE.
INSURANCE MARKET WHERE PEOPLE
IT TAKES THE INDIVIDUAL
SHOP FOR COVERAGE ON THEIR OWN--
INSURANCE MARKET WHERE PEOPLE
WHICH IS ALREADY A DISADVANTAGED
SHOP FOR COVERAGE ON THEIR OWN--
MARKET, WHERE PEOPLE PAY HIGHER
WHICH IS ALREADY A DISADVANTAGED
PRICES NET THAN OTHER PEOPLE
MARKET, WHERE PEOPLE PAY HIGHER
DO-- AND IT MAKES THAT MARKET
PRICES NET THAN OTHER PEOPLE
MORE EXPENSIVE.
DO-- AND IT MAKES THAT MARKET
SO, AGAIN, PEOPLE ARE HEALTHY,
MORE EXPENSIVE.
WHO WORK OUT, TRY TO EAT RIGHT,
SO, AGAIN, PEOPLE ARE HEALTHY,
WHO STAY HEALTHY BUT SHOP FOR
WHO WORK OUT, TRY TO EAT RIGHT,
COVERAGE ON THEIR OWN ARE NOW
WHO STAY HEALTHY BUT SHOP FOR
HAVING TO PAY MORE FOR COVERAGE
COVERAGE ON THEIR OWN ARE NOW
TO SUBSIDIZE OTHER PEOPLE.
HAVING TO PAY MORE FOR COVERAGE
AND, AGAIN, WE MAY SAY THAT WE
TO SUBSIDIZE OTHER PEOPLE.
WANT TO SUBSIDIZE OTHER PEOPLE
AND, AGAIN, WE MAY SAY THAT WE
TO A DEGREE BUT WE'RE DOING THAT
WANT TO SUBSIDIZE OTHER PEOPLE
ON THE BACKS OF PEOPLE WHO
TO A DEGREE BUT WE'RE DOING THAT
PROBABLY ARE NOT EXACTLY MOST
ON THE BACKS OF PEOPLE WHO
ADVANTAGED PEOPLE IN THE SYSTEM
PROBABLY ARE NOT EXACTLY MOST
TODAY.
ADVANTAGED PEOPLE IN THE SYSTEM
>> Brown: LET ME LET JACOB
TODAY.
HACKER RESPOND TO THAT.
>> Brown: LET ME LET JACOB
>> WELL, I THINK WE SHOULD
HACKER RESPOND TO THAT.
RECOGNIZE THERE ARE A LOT OF
>> WELL, I THINK WE SHOULD
CROSS SUBSIDIES IN THE PRESENT
RECOGNIZE THERE ARE A LOT OF
SYSTEM IN REDISTRIBUTION.
CROSS SUBSIDIES IN THE PRESENT
IN FACT, BECAUSE OF THE WAY THE
SYSTEM IN REDISTRIBUTION.
TAX BREAKS FOR HEALTH INSURANCE
IN FACT, BECAUSE OF THE WAY THE
ARE STRUCTURED, THE CURRENT
TAX BREAKS FOR HEALTH INSURANCE
SYSTEM IS ACTUALLY VERY
ARE STRUCTURED, THE CURRENT
FAVORABLE TO PEOPLE WHO HAVE
SYSTEM IS ACTUALLY VERY
INSURANCE INTO HIGHER-FISCAL
FAVORABLE TO PEOPLE WHO HAVE
CLIFF PEOPLE.
INSURANCE INTO HIGHER-FISCAL
SO PART OF THE GOAL OF THE
CLIFF PEOPLE.
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WAS TO MAKE
SO PART OF THE GOAL OF THE
HELP FOR HEALTH INSURANCE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WAS TO MAKE
AVAILABLE TO THOSE WITH LOWER
HELP FOR HEALTH INSURANCE
INCOMES.
AVAILABLE TO THOSE WITH LOWER
AND SO IF YOU LOOK AT THE LAW,
INCOMES.
IT'S ACTUALLY VERY MUCH
AND SO IF YOU LOOK AT THE LAW,
SUPPORTING THE IDEA THAT PEOPLE
IT'S ACTUALLY VERY MUCH
SHOULD BE IN THE WORK FORCE AND
SUPPORTING THE IDEA THAT PEOPLE
RECEIVING THEIR HEALTH BENEFITS
SHOULD BE IN THE WORK FORCE AND
THROUGH THEIR HARD WORK.
RECEIVING THEIR HEALTH BENEFITS
FOR EXAMPLE, IT IS TRYING TO
THROUGH THEIR HARD WORK.
ENCOURAGE EMPLOYERS TO CONTINUE
FOR EXAMPLE, IT IS TRYING TO
TO PROVIDE HEALTH INSURANCE,
ENCOURAGE EMPLOYERS TO CONTINUE
WHICH I THINK OVER THE SLORPL
TO PROVIDE HEALTH INSURANCE,
GOING TO BE DIFFICULT TO
WHICH I THINK OVER THE SLORPL
MAINTAIN.
GOING TO BE DIFFICULT TO
BUT IT'S CERTAINLY AN APPROACH
MAINTAIN.
THAT'S CONSISTENT WITH THE
BUT IT'S CERTAINLY AN APPROACH
WORK-ORIENTED SYSTEM WE HAVE
THAT'S CONSISTENT WITH THE
TODAY.
WORK-ORIENTED SYSTEM WE HAVE
AND THE ONLY THING IT'S REALLY
TODAY.
DOING ON THE SIDE OF BRINGING UP
AND THE ONLY THING IT'S REALLY
BENEFITS IS TO REALLY TRY TO
DOING ON THE SIDE OF BRINGING UP
MAKE SURE THAT IT FILLS THOSE
BENEFITS IS TO REALLY TRY TO
GAPS THAT EXIST NOW BETWEEN THE
MAKE SURE THAT IT FILLS THOSE
MEDICAID PROGRAM FOR THE VERY
GAPS THAT EXIST NOW BETWEEN THE
POOR AND THOSE WHO HAVE GOOD
MEDICAID PROGRAM FOR THE VERY
HEALTH INSURANCE THROUGH THEIR
POOR AND THOSE WHO HAVE GOOD
EMPLOYMENT.
HEALTH INSURANCE THROUGH THEIR
OFTEN PEOPLE WHO HAVE HIGHER
EMPLOYMENT.
WAGES AND WHO ARE RECEIVING
OFTEN PEOPLE WHO HAVE HIGHER
LARGER TAX BREAKS.
WAGES AND WHO ARE RECEIVING
ONE THING I WOULD SAY-- AND I
LARGER TAX BREAKS.
THINK I NEED PUSH BACK AGAINST
ONE THING I WOULD SAY-- AND I
THE POINT THAT AVIK MADE-- IS
THINK I NEED PUSH BACK AGAINST
THAT THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE WHO
THE POINT THAT AVIK MADE-- IS
ARE LOSING OUT BECAUSE THEY WERE
THAT THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE WHO
LOW-RISK PEOPLE WHO WHO HAD VERY
ARE LOSING OUT BECAUSE THEY WERE
INEXPENSIVE INDIVIDUAL POLICIES.
LOW-RISK PEOPLE WHO WHO HAD VERY
BUT THOSE POLICIES WERE IN NO
INEXPENSIVE INDIVIDUAL POLICIES.
WAY GUARANTEED IN THE INDIVIDUAL
BUT THOSE POLICIES WERE IN NO
MARKET.
WAY GUARANTEED IN THE INDIVIDUAL
INSURERS ARE CHANGING THEIR
MARKET.
POLICIES EVERY YEAR.
INSURERS ARE CHANGING THEIR
MOREOVER, THEY WERE ADVANTAGED
POLICIES EVERY YEAR.
IN PART BECAUSE THEY WERE IN THE
MOREOVER, THEY WERE ADVANTAGED
YEARS THAT THEY WERE HEALTHY
IN PART BECAUSE THEY WERE IN THE
ABLE TO GET THESE LOW-COST
YEARS THAT THEY WERE HEALTHY
POLICIES.
ABLE TO GET THESE LOW-COST
A SYSTEM THAT'S GOING TO MAKE
POLICIES.
SURE THAT PEOPLE HAVE COVERAGE
A SYSTEM THAT'S GOING TO MAKE
OVER THEIR LIFETIMES AND MAKE
SURE THAT PEOPLE HAVE COVERAGE
SURE THOSE WHO ARE HEALTHY ARE
OVER THEIR LIFETIMES AND MAKE
PAYING IN AS WELL AS THOSE WHO
SURE THOSE WHO ARE HEALTHY ARE
ARE SICK IS GOING TO HAVE TO
PAYING IN AS WELL AS THOSE WHO
MAKE SURE THAT POLICIES ARE
ARE SICK IS GOING TO HAVE TO
AVAILABLE, ARE CONTINUOUS AND
MAKE SURE THAT POLICIES ARE
SOMETIMES THAT WILL BE MORE
AVAILABLE, ARE CONTINUOUS AND
COSTLY.
SOMETIMES THAT WILL BE MORE
BUT FOR MOST PEOPLE WE'VE SEEN
COSTLY.
THE COSTS ARE GOING TO BE LOWER
BUT FOR MOST PEOPLE WE'VE SEEN
THAN THEY HAVE -- THAN THE
THE COSTS ARE GOING TO BE LOWER
POLICIES THEY HAD TODAY.
THAN THEY HAVE -- THAN THE
ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU TAKE INTO
POLICIES THEY HAD TODAY.
ACCOUNT THE LARGE SUBSIDIES
ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU TAKE INTO
PEOPLE WILL RECEIVE IF THEY HAVE
ACCOUNT THE LARGE SUBSIDIES
LOWER INCOMES.
PEOPLE WILL RECEIVE IF THEY HAVE
>> Brown: AVIK ROY, YOU GET THE
LOWER INCOMES.
LAST WORD ON THAT.
>> Brown: AVIK ROY, YOU GET THE
>> IT REALLY COMES DOWN TO THE
LAST WORD ON THAT.
QUESTION OF INDIVIDUAL LIBERTY
>> IT REALLY COMES DOWN TO THE
VERSUS A DESIGN OF THE INSURANCE
QUESTION OF INDIVIDUAL LIBERTY
MARKET.
VERSUS A DESIGN OF THE INSURANCE
AND I THINK WHAT WE'VE SEEN THAT
MARKET.
WHEN YOU GIVE PEOPLE MORE
AND I THINK WHAT WE'VE SEEN THAT
CONTROL OVER THEIR HEALTH
WHEN YOU GIVE PEOPLE MORE
DOLLARS THROUGH HEALTH SAVINGS
CONTROL OVER THEIR HEALTH
ACCOUNTS, CHOICES OF THEIR OWN
DOLLARS THROUGH HEALTH SAVINGS
INSURANCE PLANS, THE COST IS
ACCOUNTS, CHOICES OF THEIR OWN
MUCH LOWER AND THE QUALITY OF
INSURANCE PLANS, THE COST IS
PLANS IS MUCH HIGHER.
MUCH LOWER AND THE QUALITY OF
IT'S WHEN THE GOVERNMENT STARTS
PLANS IS MUCH HIGHER.
TO DETERMINE WHAT THE PLANS MUST
IT'S WHEN THE GOVERNMENT STARTS
CONTAIN THAT YOU HAVE PROBLEMS
TO DETERMINE WHAT THE PLANS MUST
WITH ACCESS TO CARE.
CONTAIN THAT YOU HAVE PROBLEMS
MANY MEDICAID IT'S VERY FOR
WITH ACCESS TO CARE.
PATIENTS TO GETTING ACCESS TO
MANY MEDICAID IT'S VERY FOR
PHYSICIANS.
PATIENTS TO GETTING ACCESS TO
THE HEALTH OUTCOMES ARE WORSE
PHYSICIANS.
THAN THEY ARE FOR PEOPLE WITH
THE HEALTH OUTCOMES ARE WORSE
PRIVATE INSURANCE.
THAN THEY ARE FOR PEOPLE WITH
THESE THE CONCERNS THAT
PRIVATE INSURANCE.
AMERICANS HAVE.
THESE THE CONCERNS THAT
>> Brown: JACOB HACKER AND AVIK
AMERICANS HAVE.
ROY, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Brown: JACOB HACKER AND AVIK
>> Sreenivasan: THIS MONTH WE'VE
ROY, THANKS SO MUCH.
BROUGHT YOU PERSONAL STORIES ON
>> Sreenivasan: THIS MONTH WE'VE
HOW THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT IS
BROUGHT YOU PERSONAL STORIES ON
AFFECTING INDIVIDUAL LIVES.
HOW THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT IS
YOU CAN WATCH THOSE ON OUR
AFFECTING INDIVIDUAL LIVES.
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Sreenivasan: AS THE BLOODY
CIVIL WAR IN SYRIA RAGES ON, THE
HEAD OF THE UNITED NATIONS
REFUGEE AGENCY TODAY CALLED ON
EUROPEAN AND GULF STATES TO TAKE
IN THE GROWING NUMBER OF
REFUGEES.
HE SAID SOME THREE MILLION
SYRIANS HAVE FLED TO NEIGHBORING
COUNTRIES AND 6.5 MILLION MORE
HAVE BEEN DISPLACED INSIDE THE
COUNTRY.
AS A RESULT, THE DAILY LIVES OF
REGULAR CITIZENS HAS DRASTICALLY
DETERIORATED.
LINDSAY HILSUM OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS" HAS THIS REPORT
ON THE INCREASED SUFFERING.
>> Reporter: THEY LOOK LIKE SUCH
NORMAL KIDS, BUT THEIR FAMILIES
HAVE FLED TO CENTRAL DAMASCUS
FROM THE SUBURBS WHERE THEY SAW
THINGS NO CHILD SHOULD SEE.
"THERE WAS NO LIFE, EVERYTHING
WAS DEAD" HE SAYS.
"EVERYONE WAS MOURNING THEIR
CHILDREN WHO'D BEEN KILLED."
"THERE WAS NOTHING BUT FIGHTING
AND SHELLING," SHE SAYS.
"AND I DIDN'T HAVE ANY FRIENDS
TO PLAY WITH."
AT LEAST THEY'RE SAFE HERE.
EVERYDAY THEY GO TO CLASSES AT
THE CENTER WHERE DISPLACED
PEOPLE LEARN MULTIPLE SKILLS.
MEN'S GROOMING IS POPULAR.
THE PROJECT WAS ORIGINALLY FROM
REFUGEES FROM IRAQ BUT THE CYCLE
OF MS. FULLY THE MIDDLE EAST HAS
MOVED AROUND.
NOW MOST OF THE IRAQIS HAVE GONE
HOME.
ONE HAS STAYED ON TO TEACH
ENGLISH TO HIS FORMER HOSTS.
SYRIANS DIDN'T NEED FOOD AID
BEFORE THE WAR.
THEY DO NOW.
THE WOMEN TELL ME EVERYDAY ITEMS
SUCH AS SUGAR AND CHICKEN HAVE
INCREASED SIX FOLD OR MORE.
GETTING SUPPLIES TO DAMASCUS IS
EASY, BUT NEARLY HALF THE PLACES
U.N. AGENCIES ARE TRYING TO
REACH ARE CONTESTED OR IN REBEL
HANDS.
>> WE'RE MOVING THOUSANDS OF
TRUCKLOADS OF FOOD EVERY SINGLE
MONTH WITH THOUSANDS DRIVERS.
YOU HAVE FAMILIES AT HOME WHO
WORRY ABOUT THEM AS WELL AND
IT'S FREQUENTLY JUST A SIMPLE
CASE THAT THEY ARE TOO
FRIGHTENED TO GO INTO PARTICULAR
AREAS UNTIL THE FIGHTING CALMS
DOWN.
>> Reporter: FIGHTING AND A
GOVERNMENT BLOCKADE ARE
PREVENTING FOOD FROM REACHING
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF CIVILIANS
IN THE SUBURBS AROUND THE
CAPITAL THAT ARE UNDER REBEL
CONTROL.
MANY OF THESE PEOPLE HAVE FLED
THE DAMASCUS SUBURBS WHICH IS
STILL BESIEGED.
VERY LITTLE IS GETTING IN OR
OUT.
OVER THE SUMMER, PEOPLE THERE
HAVE BEEN ABLE TO SURVIVE
BECAUSE THEY GROW VEGETABLES.
BUT THE WINTER IS COMING AND THE
FEAR IS THAT THE GOVERNMENT WILL
USE FOOD AS A WEAPON OF WAR AND
TRY AND STARVE OUT BOTH THE
REBEL FIGHTERS AND THE
RESIDENTS.
THESE PICTURES OF EMPTY SHELVES
ARE IN A SUBURB CONTROLLED BY
THE REBELS AND BESIEGED BY
GOVERNMENT FORCES FOR MORE THAN
A YEAR.
EVEN VEGETABLES SEEM TO BE
RUNNING LOW NOW.
PEOPLE USE FIREWOOD TO COOK
BECAUSE GAS IS IN SHTOR SUPPLY.
AND SOMETIMES EVEN THAT'S TOO
EXPENSIVE.
THIS PERSON HAS BEEN REDUCED TO
COOKING ON ANIMAL DUNG.
HEIFER HUSBAND HADN'T WORKED
SINCE HE WAS WOUND SOD SHE USES
HER MEAGER EARNINGS AS A
SEAMSTRESS TO FEED THREE BOYS.
>> WE EAT ONLY ONE MEAL A DAY
AND IF WE HAVE SOME FOOD THEY
CAN HAVE SOUP IN THE MARKET.
SOME DAYS THEY DO NOT EAT.
ONLY ONE KNEEL THE AFTERNOON,
THAT'S ALL.
THAT'S WHAT WE CAN MANAGE.
>> Reporter: THE COUNTRY IS
CRISSCROSSED WITH FRONT LINES.
MORE THAN
2,000 REBEL GROUPS ARE FIGHTING
EACH OTHER AND THE REGIME.
LOCAL RED CRESCENT VOLUNTEERS
ARE OFTEN THE ONLY ONE WHO CAN
PERSUADE AN ANGRY MAN WITH A GUN
TO LET SURPRISE IN.
>> IT COMES TO THE GUY ON THE
CHECKPOINT.
SOMETIME HE IS SAYS OKAY.
BUT THOSE PEOPLE INSIDE, THEY
KILLED MY BROTHER, THEY KILLED
MY MOTHER, THEY KILLED MY FATHER
I'LL NEVER LET YOU DELIVER FOOD
FOR THE PEOPLE WHO ARE SHOOTING
AT ME.
IT COMES TO THAT.
>> Reporter: ROUTINE VACCINATION
17 CASES OF POLIO-- ERADICATED
IN SYRIA A DECADE AND A HALF
AGO-- HAVE NOW BRN CONCERNED.
THE CRIPPLING DISEASE WAS
APPARENTLY BROUGHT IN BY JIHADI
FIGHTERS FROM PAKISTAN WHERE
IT'S ENDEMIC.
>> THIS WAS POSITIVE ON OUR SIDE
BECAUSE IT HELP HAD HAD US TO
MAKE THE COMMUNITY REALIZE THAT
IT IS IMPORTANT TO BRING THEIR
CHILDREN FOR VACCINATIONS AND
ALSO FOR THE COMMUNITY TO ACCEPT
THOSE VACCINATIONS WHO ARE
COMING HOUSE TO HOUSE.
>> Reporter: GOVERNMENT AND
REBELS ARE NOW ALLOWING VACCINES
ACROSS THE LINE BUS MORE FOOD
AND OTHER MEDICINES ARE URGENTLY
NEEDED.
WAR HAS BROUGHT IN ITS WAKE AN
ERA OF HUNGER AND DISEASE THAT
NO SYRIAN COULD HAVE IMAGINED IN
THIS CENTURY.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS
THANKSGIVING WE HAVE THREE
HOLIDAY-THEMED STORIES.
FIRST UP: JUDY WOODRUFF VISITS
WITH TRENDSETTING RESTAURATEUR
ALICE WATERS.
>> Woodruff: IN A DAY WHEN
NEARLY ALL FARMERS' MARKETS AND
GROCERY STORES CARRY ORGANIC
PRODUCE, IT'S HARD TO IMAGINE
THE IDEA AS NOVEL.
BUT WHEN CHEF ALICE WATERS
OPENED HER RESTAURANT CHEZ
PANISSE IN A BERKELEY
NEIGHBORHOOD OVER 40 YEARS AGO.
HER CONCEPT OF COOKING WITH
SEASONAL, ORGANIC INGREDIENTS
BOUGHT FRESH FROM LOCAL FARMS,
WAS NEW.
>> SO YOU'RE LOOKING FOR
IF IT'S JUST PICKED IT HAS A
KIND OF LIFE ABOUT IT AND IT'S
EVIDENT TO THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
COMING INTO THE RESTAURANT.
>> Woodruff: THE STYLE BECAME
KNOWN AS CALIFORNIA CUISINE, AND
WATERS ONE OF ITS PIONEERS.
>> LOOK, IT'S A CHICKEN.
>> Woodruff: WATERS HAS BECOME A
LEADER OUTSIDE THE KITCHEN, TOO.
EDUCATING STUDENTS ABOUT FOOD
AND WHERE IT COMES FROM.
IN 1995, SHE FOUNDED THE EDIBLE
SCHOOLYARD PROJECT.
STUDENTS LEARN TO PLANT AND
HARVEST A GARDEN, THEN PREPARE
THE PRODUCE IN THE KITCHEN.
IT NOW HAS A NETWORK OF SOME
3,000 SCHOOLS AROUND THE WORLD.
>> WELL, IT'S HELPED ME REALIZE
HOW MUCH STUFF ACTUALLY GROWS IN
THE GROUND AND HOW MUCH STUFF.
YOU KNOW, EVERYTHING COMES IN
PACKAGES THESE DAYS.
>> Woodruff: WATERS IS THE
AUTHOR OF 14 BOOKS.
HER LATEST, A COOKBOOK, "THE ART
OF SIMPLE FOOD II," CAME OUT
THIS FALL.
THANK YO FOR TALKING WITH US
WE HAVE GROCERY STORES WITH FOOD
IS THIS WHAT YOU WANTED TO SEE
>> I WAS LOOKING FOR TASTES
I WAS LOOKING FOR FOOD I'D EATEN
IN FRANCE
>> Woodruff: WHY DO YOU BELIEVE
ORGANIC FOOD
STUDIES SAY THAAT IS IT NOT
HEALTHIER FOR PEOPLE
WE WANT THE FARMERS TO BE
SUPPORTED
THAT'S REALLY WHAT IT'S ABOUT
I HAVE FOUND THAT THEY PLANT ALL
KINDS OF FOOD
AM LOOKING FOR FRUITS AND
VEGETABLES
WHEN I GO TO ITALY
>> THAT'S WHAT IF FARMERS DO.
>> Woodruff: YOU GET ASKED THIS
QUESTION ALL THE TIME.
BUT WHAT ABOUT THE PEOPLE WHO
SAY IT ALL SOUNDS GREAT, I WISH
I COULD AFFORD IT BUT I CAN'T
AFFORD TO BUY ORGANIC FOOD.
I CAN'T AFFORD TO BUY LOCALLY
GROWN FOOD?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE'S THE
ISSUE OF KNOWING HOW TO COOK AND
MAKING A DINNER IN AN AFFORDABLE
WAY.
PY THINK WE'VE LOST ALL OF OUR
COOKING KNOWLEDGE AND
UNDERSTANDING ABOUT SEASONS
BECAUSE OF THE FAST FOOD
INDUSTRY.
THEY WOULD LIKE US TO BELIEVE
THAT EVEN COOKING IS DRUDGERY
AND SITTING DOWN AT THE TABLE IS
UNIMPORTANT.
AND, YOU KNOW, IT'S JUST BETTER
AND CHEAPER TO BUY SOMETHING
THAT'S PREPARED FOR US.
BUT, YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU THINK
ABOUT IT, WHEN SOMETHING IS VERY
CHEAP IT MEANS THAT SOMEBODY IS
LOSING OUT AND I THINK THAT
PERSON IS THE FARMER.
>> Woodruff: BUT IS THAT KIND OF
FOOD THAT YOU LIEBEVE WE SHOULD
ALL EAT MORE OF, IS IT
AVAILABLE?
IS IT AVAILABLE TO MOST PEOPLE?
>> WELL, IT COULD BE.
AND IT SHOULD BE.
AND I'M -- I JUST AM FOCUSED
COMPLETELY ON PUBLIC EDUCATION
BECAUSE THAT'S THE PLACE WHERE
WE CAN LEARN ABOUT FOOD AND
WHAT'S GOOD FOR US AND RECONNECT
TO NATURE.
SO IMPORTANT TO THAT WE GO INTO
THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND WE FEED
ALL OF THE KIDS SOMETHING THAT
IS REALLY GOOD FOR THEM.
>> Woodruff: IS THIS PART OF THE
SAME CONVERSATION THE COUNTRY
HAS BEEN STARTING TO HAVE ABOUT
OBESITY
>>?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> Woodruff: WE'VE HEARD SOME OF
IT FROM THE WHITE HOUSE BUT
THE'S ERA WHOLE MOVEMENT AROUND
THAT RIGHT NOW.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, WE PAY EITHER
UP FRONT OR WE PAY OUT BACK AND
WE ARE REALLY PAYING OUT BACK
WITH OUR HEALTH AND THE OUR LACK
OF HEALTH, GOOD HEALTH.
AND I THINK THERE'S A WAY THAT
YOU CAN -- CHILDREN PARTICULARLY
JUST FALL IN LOVE WITH FOOD
THAT'S GOOD FOR THEM.
AND THAT'S BEEN MY EXPERIENCE.
YOU KNOW, I'VE BEEN WORKING IN
THE SCHOOLS, IN THE PUBLIC
SCHOOLS, FOR 19 YEARS AND WE'VE
BEEN DOING THE EDIBLE SCHOOLYARD
PROJECT AND WE ARE BRINGING
CHILDREN INTO A RELATIONSHIP-- A
NEW RELATIONSHIP-- TO FOOD AND
TO GROWING FOOD.
AND IT'S NOT A GARDENING CLASS
OR A COOKING CLASS, THEY DO
THEIR MATH IN THE GARDEN.
IT'S LIKE A LIVING LAB AND IT'S
JUST -- IT'S CAPTIVATING.
>> HERE'S A QUESTION I'M DYING
TO ASK YOU: WHAT ABOUT COOKING
ON THE PART OF PEOPLE WHO THINK
THEY'RE TOO BUSY.
WHO JUST DON'T TIME TO COOK.
WHAT DO YOU SAY?
>> WELL, THAT'S A BEAUTIFUL
QUESTION AND I WOULD SAY THAT IF
YOU GO TO THE FARMERS' MARKET ON
A WEEKEND AND YOU BUY REALLY
DELICIOUS-TASTING FRUITS AND
VEGETABLES, ALL OTHER THINGS AS
WELL, A NICE ORGANIC CHICKEN,
YOU CAN VERY EASILY COOK DURING
THE WEEK BECAUSE YOU HAVE
INGREDIENTS THAT HAVE TASTE AND
IN THE SUMMER YOU'RE JUST
SLICING THAT TOMATO AND IT'S SO
EFFORTLESS.
YOU'RE COOKING A LITTLE PIECE OF
FISH.
IT'S DIFFICULT TO COOK WHEN YOU
DON'T THOSE INGREDIENTS.
AND IT'S BEAUTIFUL TO TAKE A
WHOLE CHICKEN A
THE EVEN AND MAYBE KEEP THOSE
BONES, MAKE A SOUP AT THE END OF
A MEAL AND THEN HAVE ANOTHER
DINNER THE NEXT NIGHT THAT
INCORPORATES THAT STOCK THAT
YOU'VE MADE.
IN WHEN YOU'RE JUST EVERYDAY
TRYING TO START FROM SCRATCH AND
IT'S OVERWHELMING AND YOU'RE
WORKING BUT I FEEL LIKE I COULD
COOK A KNEEL IN TEN MINUTES IF I
HAVE THE INGREDIENTS THERE.
>> Woodruff: SO THIS IS
THANKSGIVING WEEK WHEN WE'RE
TALKING.
ARE THERE PARTICULAR TRADITIONS
IN ALICE WATERS' FAMILY THAT YOU
BELIEVE IS IMPORTANT TO REMEMBER
AROUND THAT TIME?
>> WELL, CERTAINLY THERE ARE
TRADITIONS IN MY FAMILY SINCE
I'VE BEEN ABOUT 20.
SOMEPLACE AROUND THERE AFTER I'D
GONE TO FRANCE.
BUT I ALWAYS COOK WITH MY
FRIENDS.
THEY ALL COME OVER AND WE DO IT
TOGETHER.
>>ALI IT'S
A DELIGHT TO TALK WITH YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AND I KNOW YOU HAVE ANSWERED
SOME QUESTIONS FROM OUR VIEWERS
AND WE'LL BE POSTING THOSE
ONLINE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU CAN FIND
THOSE ANSWERS FROM ALICE WATERS
TO VIEWERS' QUESTIONS ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
WE LOOK BACK NOW AT A TIME WHEN
ORGANIC FOOD WAS THE ONLY
OPTION.
PAUL SOLMAN EXPLORES THE
DIFFERENT ECONOMIC ATTITUDES
HELD BY NATIVE AMERICANS AND THE
FIRST PILGRIMS.
IT'S PART OF HIS ONGOING
REPORTING "MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS" OR IN THIS CASE
HISTORY.
>> Reporter: THANKSGIVING TIME
AT THE WAMPANOAG HOMESITE, A
17th CENTURY LIVING HISTORY
EXHIBIT AT PLIMOTH PLANTATION.
SURPRISE.
>> ITS CALLED IOMPWEAWASAPWIGIK.
IT'S VENISON STEW.
LIKE TO TRY?
>> Reporter: WELL SURE, BUT I
WAS GOING TO ASK YOU ABOUT
TURKEY.
NO FEATHERED FRIENDS SACRIFICED
FOR THE TRADITIONAL DISH MASHPEE
WAMPANOAG KERRI HELME WAS
SHARING, HOWEVER.
THAT'S VENISON?
>> IT IS AND YOU'D PROBABLY SEE
MORE OF THIS YOU KNOW AT THE
FIRST THANKSGIVING THAN TURKEY.
>> Reporter: IN FACT, WHILE THE
1621 CELEBRATION IN PLYMOUTH,
MASSACHUSETTS, IS SPARSELY
DOCUMENTED, IT PROBABLY DIDN'T
MUCH RESEMBLE TODAY'S
THANKSGIVING IN A LOT OF WAYS,
INCLUDING WHAT YOU MIGHT CALL
ITS ECONOMICS.
THE PILGRIMS, WHO HAD ALREADY
MOVED TOWARD A CASH EXCHANGE
ECONOMY IN EUROPE, ENCOUNTERED
NATIVE PEOPLE WITH VERY
DIFFERENT ATTITUDES.
TOWARD REAL ESTATE, FOR
INSTANCE.
>> THE LAND THAT WAS HERE WAS
FOR EVERYBODY TO USE.
WE DIDN'T BELIEVE IN POSSESSING
OR OWNING LAND.
>> Reporter: TIM TURNER MANAGES
THE WAMPANOAG INDIGENOUS PROGRAM
AT PLIMOTH.
>> YOU MIGHT SEE SOMEBODY USE A
PIECE OF LAND, BUT THERE WAS
NEVER A FENCE.
YOU WERE CROSSING PEOPLE'S
PROPERTY ALL THE TIME.
PEOPLE WERE CUTTING THROUGH YOUR
HOMESITE ALL THE TIME.
SO, OUR CONCEPT OF LAND
OWNERSHIP VERSUS THE CONCEPT UH
THAT THE ENGLISH HAD WAS TOTALLY
DIFFERENT.
>> Reporter: ALSO TOTALLY
DIFFERENT IT APPEARS: THE
WAMPANOAG, THOUGH THEY DID TRADE
WITH EACH OTHER, WEREN'T PROFIT
MAXIMIZERS.
>> YOU WEREN'T TRYING TO MAKE A
PROFIT OR LOOK BETTER THAN
ANYBODY ELSE.
YOU TOOK MORE THAN EVERYBODY
ELSE PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY
WOULDN'T HAVE LIKED THAT.
>> Reporter: IN THE 17th CENTURY
ENGLISH COMMUNITY, HOWEVER,
COLONISTS WERE MOVING TOWARD
ECONOMIC GROWTH, THROUGH TRADE
WITH THE NATIVES FOR LAND, TO
TAKE ONE EXAMPLE.
WITH PLANTATION DEPUTY DIRECTOR
RICHARD PICKERING AS OUR GUIDE:
>> I WANT YOU TO MEET TWO OF THE
RESIDENTS WHO WERE HERE FOR THE
HARVEST FEAST IN 1621.
>> Reporter: WE STEPPED BACK IN
TIME TO GET THE COLONIST
PERSPECTIVE FROM SO-CALLED
INTERPRETERS PLAYING EDWARD
WINSLOW AND STEPHEN HOPKINS.
>> HOW DO YOU DO?
>> Reporter: A MERCHANT WHO
EXPLAINED HIS MOTIVE IS TO EARN
AS MUCH AS HE CAN FROM TRADE.
>> WE ARE A TRADING COMPANY.
>> Reporter: INCLUDING TRADE
WITH THE NATIVES.
>> THERE'S FELLOWS WHO COME IN
HERE AND THEY'RE WANTING, OH I
DON'T KNOW, A LITTLE THREE PENNY
KNIFE LIKE THAT OR SOMETHING FOR
WHICH THEY'RE WILLING TO TRADE A
PELT THAT MIGHT FETCH 14, 15, 16
SHILLINGS BACK IN LONDON.
>> Reporter: DO YOU FEEL THAT
YOU ARE TAKING ADVANTAGE OF THE
PEOPLE YOU TRADE WITH IF YOU
GIVE THEM LESS THAN YOU COULD.
>> THE FURS THEY'RE GIVING TO US
THEY ALREADY GOT THEM ON THEIR
BACKS, THEY WEAR EM LIKE
CLOTHES, SO IT'S NOT AS WORTH TO
THEM, BUT TO US, IT'S HOW WE
MAKE OUR MONEY.
>> Reporter: YOU COULD SAY THERE
WERE TWO CONTRASTING ECONOMIC
MODELS AT WORK: THE SETTLERS
TRADING TO PROFIT AND THEREBY
PAY BACK THEIR INVESTORS AND
HOPEFULLY REINVEST TO GROW THE
PLIMOTECONH OMY.
BUT TO THE NATIVE PEOPLE, THE
EXCHANGE OF GOODS WAS MORE AKIN
TO GIFT-GIVING, SAYS WRITER
LEWIS HYDE.
>> IN THE EUROPEAN SENSE
SOMETHING THAT'S GIVEN TO ME
BECOMES MINE AND IT'S AS IF IT'S
CONTAINED IN MY EGO I HAVE
COMPLETE CONTROL OVER IT.
IN THE GIFT EXCHANGE SENSE, IT'S
NOT YOURS; YOU ARE THE STEWARD
OF SOMETHING WHICH IS JUST
PASSING THROUGH YOU.
>> Reporter: 30 YEARS AGO, HYDE
BEGAN A BOOK THAT'S BECOME
SOMETHING OF A CLASSIC: THE
GIFT, WITH THE ORIGIN OF APEJORA
KID: INDIAN GIVER.
>> IT MEANT THAT YOU HAVE GIVEN
THE GIFT TO SOMEBODY AND THEN
YOU WANTED TO GET IT BACK SO
YOU'RE NOT REALLY GENEROUS, BUT
IT SEEMED TO ME THAT THIS WAS
PROBABLY NOT THE ORIGINAL
MEANING OF THE WORD.
SO I FOUND THE FIRST USE OF IT,
WHICH TURNS OUT TO BE IN THOMAS
HUTCHINSON'S BOOK ABOUT THE
EARLY COLONIES IN THE UNITED
STATES.
SO ACTUALLY WHAT'S BEING
DESCRIBED IS GIFTS WHICH ARE
GIVEN HAVE TO BE RETURNED IN
SOME WAY.
SO THE FIRST WINTER IN PLYMOUTH
WAS HORRIFIC.
HALF OF THE COMPANY DIES IN TWO
AND A HALF MONTHS.
>> Reporter: THE REMAINING 53
CELEBRATED A GOOD HARVEST WITH A
FEAST.
THEY WERE JOINED BY WAMPANOAG
LEADER MASSASOIT AND HIS MEN.
ELIZABETH HOPKINS, WIFE OF
MERCHANT STEPHEN, REMEMBERED
THAT THE WAMPANOAG OFFERED
GIFTS.
>> WHEN THEY ARRIVED, THEIR
KING, MASSASSOIT, SENT SEVERAL
OF HIS MEN OUT AND THEY CAME
BACK WITH FIVE DEER WHICH THEY
PRESENTED TO SOME OF THE CHIEFER
MEN IN THE TOWN AND THIS WAS A
MARVEL TO ME, FOR IF YOU LOOK AT
THEM, YOU THINK THEY ARE WILD
MEN WHO LIVE IN THE WOODS AND
YET YOU COULD FIND GOOD ORDER
AMONGST THEM FOR THEY HONORED
THEIR KING, BUT THEY ALSO
HONORED THE CHIEFER MEN OF OUR
TOWN AS WELL.
>> Reporter: TO LEWIS HYDE, THIS
WAS THE GIFT ECONOMY AT WORK,
MUCH AS IT FUNCTIONS IN ALL
CULTURES, AT LEAST SOME OF THE
TIME.
WE GIVE A BOTTLE OF WINE WHEN WE
COME TO DINNER, FOR EXAMPLE, NOT
THE CASH EQUIVALENT.
>> THE KEY DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
GIFT EXCHANGE AND COMMERCIAL
EXCHANGE IS THE GIFT EXCHANGE
SETS UP A CONNECTION,
PARTICULARLY IF I FEEL GRATEFUL
FOR THE GIFT YOU HAVE GIVEN ME,
I MAY WANT TO DO SOMETHING IN
RETURN AND THIS BEGINS TO UH SET
UP A RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN YOU
AND ME.
>> Reporter: IT'S BEEN SAID THAT
THE PILGRIMS INVITED THE
WAMPANOAG TO THEIR FEAST AS
THANKS FOR HELPING THEM SURVIVE
THEIR FIRST YEAR.
RICHARD PICKERING ISN'T SO SURE.
>> WHETHER THE ORIGINAL
PARTICIPANTS SAW IT THAT WAY IS
NOT CLEAR.
ALL THAT WE KNOW IS GOVERNOR
BRADFORD SET ASIDE DAYS FOR A
SPECIAL MANNER OF REJOICING.
>> Reporter: BUT REGARDLESS, THE
VERY IDEA THAT TWO CULTURES
REJOICED TOGETHER MATTERS TODAY
BECAUSE THE DOWNSIDE OF A GIFT
ECONOMY IS ITS DIVIDING LINE
BETWEEN THOSE IN THE GROUP AND
THOSE OUTSIDE IT, SAYS LEWIS
HYDE.
>> ONE CRITIQUE OF GIFT EXCHANGE
IS THAT IT EXCLUDES SOME PEOPLE.
>> WHAT'S OF INTEREST IN THE
FIRST THANKSGIVING IS THAT IT
BREAKS THIS BOUNDARY.
SO IT'S NOT JUST PILGRIMS GIVING
THANKS TO GOD IN THEIR
COMMUNITY, IT'S TWO COMMUNITIES
COMING TOGETHER .
ONE THING TO THINK ABOUT IN ANY
THANKSGIVING CELEBRATION IS HAVE
YOU INVITED THE STRANGER INTO
YOUR CIRCLE AND COULD YOU DO
THAT?
>> Reporter: THANKSGIVING IN THE
VERY BROADEST SENSE, THAT IS.
GIFTS CREATING COMMUNITY.
>> Sreenivasan: AND WE CLOSE
WITH THE LIFE AND ART OF NORMAN
ROCKWELL.
JEFFREY BROWN RECENTLY SAT DOWN
IN OUR NEW YORK STUDIO WITH THE
AUTHOR OF A NEW BIOGRAPHY THAT
SHEDS LIGHT ON HOW THE PAINTER
SHAPED AMERICA'S IMAGE OF
ITSELF.
WELCOME.
>>
>> HELLO.
>> Brown: I WANT TO START WHERE
YOU YOURSELF START WHICH IS THAT
WRITING A BIOGRAPHY OF NORMAN
ROCKWELL YOU SAY WHEN YOU WERE
STARTING OUT AS AN ART CRITIC
WOULD HAVE SEEMED IMPOSSIBLE.
>> WELL, I COME FROM AN ART
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND AND ART
HISTORIANS, OF COURSE, ALWAYS
TREATED ROCKWELL AS A LONE
CALENDAR ARTIST OR AS A KIND OF
TOXIC CULTURE POLLUTER.
HE WAS CERTAINLY NOT PART OF THE
CANON OF ART HISTORY AND IN THAT
SENSE WHEN I TOOK HIM ON I WENT
OVER THE THE OTHER SIDE.
>> Brown: IN FACT, YOU SAID HE
WAS VIEWED AS A CORN BALL AND A
SQUARE.
>> CORRECT.
CORRECT.
AND THAT'S PARTLY BECAUSE HE WAS
WORKING FOR MAGAZINES.
MOST OF HIS CAREER HE WAS
WORKING FOR THE "SATURDAY
EVENING POST" WHICH WAS BASED IN
PHILADELPHIA, MAKING MAGAZINE
COVERS.
THAT, OF COURSE, WAS HIS
SPECIALTY, HE NEVER TRIED TO BE
A FINE ARTIST.
HE DIDN'T EXHIBIT IN GALLERIES
OR TRY TO HAVE A CAREER APART
FROM HIS MAGAZINE CAREER.
>> Brown: ONE OF THE THINGS YOU
DO IS SET THE CONTEXT.
WHEN WE SAY MAGAZINES NOW IT'S
DIFFERENT FROM WHAT HE WAS
DOING.
THAT WAS THE MASS CULTURE OF THE
TIME.
THIS WAS AN -- EVERYBODY SAW HIS
WORK.
>> EXACT LIVE!
WHEN HE BEGAN HIS CAREER IN 1916
THERE WAS NO T.V., OBVIOUSLY,
THERE WAS NO RADIO.
AND THE "SATURDAY EVENING POST"
ALMOST CREATED MASS CULTURE IN
AMERICA.
IT WAS ONE MAGAZINE THAT
EVERYONE COULD READ ALL ACROSS
THE COUNTRY.
PEOPLE HAD NOTHING IN COMMON.
PEOPLE -- AN IMMIGRANT ON THE
LOWER EAST SIDE WORKING IN A
SHOE FACTORY, A FARMER IN
MONTANA SUDDENLY HAD NORMAN
ROCKWELL IN COMMON.
IT WAS JUST BASEBALL, NORMAN
ROCKWELL AND THANKSGIVING.
>> Brown: THAT'S HOW AMERICA
CAME TO BELIEVE SEEN SOMEWHAT.
>> EXACTLY!
WE NEEDED COMMON CULTURE AND HE
PROVIDED IT.
>> Brown: THE WORK IS FAMOUSLY
OPTIMISTIC, HUMOROUS, POSITIVE.
THE MAN THAT YOU PRESENT IS NOT.
>> NO, NO, IF ARTISTS WERE
JUDGED BY THE AMOUNT THEY
SUFFERED HE WOULD CERTAINLY BE
UP THERE WITH THE BEST OF THEM.
HE LED PRETTY MUCH CLASSIC
TORTURED ARTIST LIFE IN THE
SENSE THAT I THINK HE WAS DRIVEN
IN LARGE PART BY DISSATISFACTION
AND THE DESIRE TO ALWAYS GET IT
RIGHT AND FEELING THAT HE HADN'T
GOTTEN IT RIGHT.
IN OTHER WORDS, HE WAS A
PERFECTIONIST AND WAS VERY
CRITICAL OF HIMSELF.
>> Brown: THAT LED TO DEPRESSION
OR TO THERAPY, YOU WRITE ABOUT
HIS WORK WITH THE FAMOUS
THERAPIST ERICKSON.
>> RIGHT.
ROCKWELL MOVED TO STOCKBRIDGE IN
1953 IN FACT TO BEGIN THERAPY
WITH ERIC ERICKSON.
STOCKBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS, IS
SEEN AS THE QUINTESSENTIAL NEW
ENGLAND TOWN OF LITTLE SHOPS AND
GRAZING COWS.
>> Brown: AND NORMAN ROCKWELL.
>> AND NORMAN ROCKWELL.
BUT WHEN HE MOVED THERE IT WAS A
PSYCHOANALYTIC CENTER OF THE
UNITED STATES BECAUSE HE THE --
THERE WAS A CENTER THERE AND IT
DREW A LOT OF PROMINENT DOCTORS.
>> Brown: YOU SAID HE WAS A
PERFECTIONIST AND YOU SAY MANY
PEOPLE IN THE ART WORLD DIDN'T
TAKE HIM SERIOUSLY, WAS THAT
PART OF IT?
HOW DID HE SEE HIMSELF?
DID HE SEE HIMSELF AS AN ARTIST?
AS A FINE ARTIST?
AS A GREAT ARTIST?
>> HE SAW HIMSELF AS AN
ILLUSTRATOR AND HE WORSHIPPED
THE ILLUSTRATEORS WHO CAME
BEFORE HIM, MOST OF WHOM WE
DON'T KNOW TODAY SUCH AS HOWARD
PYLE, PAINTER OF PIRATES WHO'S
BEEN LARGELY FORGOTTEN.
BUT HE WANTED TO BILL HIMSELF
INTO WHAT HE SAW AS THE GREAT
TRADITION OF DRAWN ILLUSTRATIONS
DOES HE TRANCE SEND THAT
CATEGORY?
I THINK HE THROWS A MONKEY
WRENCH INTO THE WHOLE PROCESS OF
CLASSIFICATION BECAUSE HE WAS AN
ILLUSTRATOR BUT HIS WORK HAS
HELD UP OVER THE YEARS AND FOR
ME HAS THE MYSTERY AND STAYING
POWER OF TRUE ART.
>> Brown: LET ME ASK YOU ABOUT
ONE SPECIFIC WORK OF ART, ONE
FAMOUS ONE.
"FREEDOM FROM WANT" A
THANKSGIVING PAINTING.
>> THAT IS ABSOLUTELY MY
FAVORITE ROCKWELL.
>> Brown: YOUR FAVORITE?
>> ABSOLUTELY MY FAVORITE.
ONE IS THAT TRADITIONAL
PORTRAYALS OF THANKSGIVING TEND
TO HAVE PEOPLE GIVING THANKS AT
A TABLE AND AT ROCKWELL'S TABLE
NO ONE IS GIVING THANKSNGLD COUE
CARRYING THE TURKEY TO THE TABLE
AND HE'S CAPTURING AMERICAN
TRADITION AND THAT AMERICANS CAN
LAUGH AT THEIR OWN TRADITION.
>> Brown: SO THERE'S MORE TWO IT
THAN JUST SAYING HERE'S THE
AMERICAN TABLE.
>> IT'S NOT A PIOUS IMAGE.
IT CAPTURED SOME OF THE LAUGHTER
THAT DOES TAKE PLACE IN THE
MIDST OF OUR MOST SACRED.
>> Brown: THAT WHAT YOU MEAN BY
"AMERICAN MIRROR"?
I'M CURIOUS ABOUT YOUR TITLE.
IS IT A MIRROR OF AMERICA OR IS
IT REFLECTING IT IN DIFFERENT --
NOW I'M CURIOUS BECAUSE OF WHAT
YOU SAID ABOUT THE PAINTING?
>> I DON'T THINK HE DREW A
LITERAL PORTRAIT OF AMERICA.
HE WAS NOT A REPORTER OR A
JOURNALIST.
I THINK HE VERY MUCH CREATED A
FREE STANDING PARALLEL UNIVERSE
THAT EXPRESSES WHAT AMERICA
DESIRED TO BE AFTER THE
DEPRESSION AND DURING WORLD WAR
AND AT A TIME WHEN WE REALLY DID
SHARE COMMON VALUES AND DID NOT
HAVE GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS IT WAS
A TIME OF ENORMOUS SOLIDARITY OF
THIS COUNTRY AND PEOPLE LIKED TO
BELIEVE THAT AMERICANS WERE
BETTER THAN EVERYONE ELSE.
NOT BECAUSE THEY HAD MORE BUT
BECAUSE THEY WERE JUST BETTER
PEOPLE.
THEY WERE MORAL, THEY WERE NICER
MORE CONSIDERATE.
SO HE CREATED, BASICALLY, A
PORTRAIT OF AMERICA AND MIRRORED
WHAT WE WANTED IT TO BE, NOT
WHAT WE WERE, THAT'S HOW I WOULD
ANSWER THAT.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT.
"AMERICAN MIRROR: THE LIFE AND
ART OF NORMAN ROCKWELL."
DEBORAH SOLOMON, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Sreenivasan: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
CHINESE WARPLANES BEGAN
PATROLLING A NEW AIR DEFENSE
ZONE IN THE EAST CHINA SEA,
HOURS AFTER SOUTH KOREA AND
JAPAN FLEW PLANES THROUGH THE
DISPUTED AIRSPACE.
IRAN EXTENDED AN INVITATION TO
THE U.N. NUCLEAR AGENCY TO VISIT
A FACILITY THAT HOUSES AN
UNFINISHED NUCLEAR REACTOR.
AND AMERICANS AT HOME AND ABROAD
CELEBRATED THE THANKSGIVING
HOLIDAY WITH PARADES, FAMILY
MEALS AND FOOTBALL GAMES.
ONLINE AT THE "NEWSHOUR" RIGHT
NOW: IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO BRING
CIVILITY TO YOUR THANKSGIVING.
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
HAVE ADVICE ON HOW TO AVOID
CONFLICT AT THE HOLIDAY DINNER
TABLE.
DAVID'S ADVICE: IF YOU HARBOR
RESENTMENT OVER HOW YOU WERE
TREATED ON YOUR 13th BIRTHDAY,
DEAL WITH IT HONESTLY.
MOST FAMILY POLITICAL DEBATES
ARE FOUGHT BECAUSE OF DEEPER
FAMILY ISSUES.
MARK'S BEST TIP?
DON'T TALK POLITICS, TALK
FOOTBALL.
TO HELP YOU OUT: OUR ONLINE TEAM
BUILT A BINGO BOARD THAT YOU CAN
USE TO FOLLOW ALL THE GAMES THIS
LONG WEEKEND.
FIND IT ON THE RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW WITH MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS.
PLUS, NEW IMAGES FROM THE
FURTHEST REACHES OF THE SOLAR
SYSTEM.
WE TALK WITH THE NASA SCIENTIST
IN CHARGE OF THE CASSINI
SPACECRAFT IMAGING TEAM, WHICH
RECENTLY RELEASED A PICTURE OF
EARTH TAKEN FROM THE BACKSIDE OF
SATURN.
THAT'S FRIDAY ON THE "NEWSHOUR."
THANK YOU.
HAPPY CHANUKAH AND HAPPY
THANKSGIVING.
GOOD NIGHT.